welcome to an exploration and comparison
of surface plas resonance and localized
surface plasma
resonance we will explain what surface
plasmas are in simple terms and
introduce the related phenomena
localized surface plasmas we will Define
resonance compare how resonance
conditions are met in spr and lspr and
discuss how these Technologies can be
used for biosensing finally we will
consider the advantages of lspr over spr
for use in invitro
Diagnostics we start by considering what
happens when a beam of light traveling
through air or water a nonconductor more
generally called a dialectric reaches
the surface of a conducting material or
metal at the interface between the metal
and the dialectric something remarkable
happens under specific conditions called
the resonant conditions a traveling
surface wave is generated at the
impinging point of light the wave
travels along the
interface it is represented in this
picture by the intensity Contour of the
associated electromagnetic field this
wave is called a surface plasma
polariton commonly referred to as a
surface
plasma to help visualize the surface
plasma wave picture a wave produced by
an object hitting the surface of water
it generates a propagating wave that
extends away from the splash point
analogous to the water waves in the case
of surface plasmas we can identify three
characteristic distances that are
pictured in the schematics shown
here first the evanescent field length
in the dialectric that represents how
far into the dialectric the surface plas
wave
extends second the evanescent field
length in the metal that represents how
far into the metal the surface plasma
wave
reaches third the surface plasma
propagation distance represents how far
from the excitation point the surface
plasma can travel along the metal or
dialectric
interface we anticipate that for
biosensing purposes the surface plasman
acts as an antenna it can sense the
presence of analytes in Solutions here
the dialectric up to a distance of the
evanescent field in the
dialectric assuming we use an excitation
light with a wavelength around 500 nanom
let's examine the characteristics of the
resulting plasma lengths in spr using a
planner gold
surface the plasma field in the metal is
in the order of a few nanometers meaning
the surface plasma does not penetrate
deep into the metal conversely the
evanescent field in the dialectric can
extend from 250 nanm up to a micron into
the dialectric meaning that the surface
plasma can sense up to a micron away
from the surface finally the surface
plasma propagation length can extend a
few microns up to the millimeter scale
in very ideal
situations if the lateral dimension of
the interface becomes much smaller than
the plas propagation length the surface
plasma is
localized for example in this case of a
localized surface plasma for a 20
nanometer silver particle there is no
traveling wave there is a large increase
of the electromagnetic field close to
the particle surface but it extends only
a small distance out hence the surface
plasma is
localized if we were to scale both
images to their relative size here is
what it would look like it is
immediately apparent that the evanescent
field of localized spr is much shorter
than the evanescent field of regular spr
this means that lspr Senses at a
distance of only a few tens of
nanometers while spr Senses at distance
es up to a
micron here we depict the phenomena of
resonance and lspr by demonstrating how
different light waves affect the
oscillation of a negatively charged
electron cloud around a positively
charged static ionic core the system
inherently possesses a natural frequency
Omega P at which the oscillation
occurs if we perturb the oscillation at
a light frequency different than Omega P
most of the impinging light will be
scattered we call this situation off
resonance however if we perturb the
oscillation at a light frequency equal
to Omega P the natural frequency of
oscillation the impinging light is
absorbed by the oscillation thereby
enhancing its amplitude as a result less
light will be scattered we call this
case a
resonance notice that the frequency of
light is proportional to to the inverse
of the wavelength color so resonance can
be induced by selecting the appropriate
light wavelength this resonance
selection by dialing the appropriate
color of light is the Hallmark of
lspr in contrast spr has an additional
and more stringent condition to fulfill
its resonant condition this stringent
condition is momentum
conservation the momentum of the
impinging light in air is smaller than
the momentum of the surface plasma hence
no excitation of surface plas is
possible to meet the resonant condition
the momentum of the light can be
increased through Adaptive Optics such
as an optical
prism therefore for a certain wavelength
the momentum of the impinging light is
modified to match the momentum of the
surface plasman and a surface plasma can
then be launched spr requires the use of
such Adaptive Optics in order to meet
the resonant condition this poses
engineering challenges that will be
discussed
later resonant conditions can be
achieved by sending light onto the
interface at a certain angle of
incidence if the resonant conditions are
met a surface plasma is launched at the
interface and results in a sharp decay
of the reflected light this can be
accomplished by scanning the angle of
incidence of light at a fixed wavelength
or by using a broad light source with
multiple
wavelengths in fact the resonant
conditions in both spr and lspr are very
sensitive to the nature of the interface
if a thin layer of biomolecules is
absorbed onto the interface the resonant
conditions change even though the change
may be very slight it is
measurable but both spr and lspr result
from the interaction between light and a
metal surface as we have learned the
interaction produces a surface wave at
the interface called a surface
plasma there is a notable difference in
the instrumental complexity required for
spr versus that for
lspr in spr the energy and momentum
matching conditions are stringent and
require the use of Adaptive Optics for
instance in the crutchman configuration
displayed on the left side a ppolarized
laser light impinges onto the metal
surface after passing through an optical
prism the incident angle is maintained
to within 0.001 of a degree which also
requires precise temperature control to
maintain the reflected light intensity
is measured with a detector which must
also be precisely
aligned in contrast resonant conditions
in lspr are much simpler lspr
instrumentation consists of a white
light source such as room light or white
LEDs and a detector such as a
spectrometer camera or photo diode in
summary the complexity of lspr
Technology resides in the surface of the
chip while the instrumentation used to
read the signal is simple in sharp
contrast the complexity of spr resides
in the precise setup of the
instrumentation required to launch a
surface plasman and read it accurately
a second key difference between spr and
lspr becomes particularly notable in
biosensing applications the difference
is in the sensing volume of their
respective plasmans captured by what is
referred to as bulk effect due to the
much larger plasma field of spr up to
1,000 nanometers versus LS spr's 40
nanometers biomolecules that are not
actually bound at the sensor surface can
be detected in spr causing a bulk effect
or false positive reading as depicted by
the three Unbound biomolecules shown in
the sketch in contrast in lspr only the
molecules bound at the surface are
captured by the localized surface
plasmans the other three are invisible
to the sensor and do not contribute to
the signal thus lspr has marginal bulk
effect in summary spr and lspr are
similar sensing Technologies enabled by
surface plasmans however the two
technologies differ in several important
ways first lspr enjoys a marginal bulk
effect due to the small size of the
localized plasman evanescent
field in fact the large evanescent field
of spr is responsible for the large
non-specific bulk effect and
uncontrollable signal fluctuations which
also makes it generally incompatible
with complex
matrices due to these and other factors
SP R has not been successfully applied
in the diagnostic World in particular
for blood-based amuno assays where
detection of lowle biomarkers requires
signal
amplification second lspr can be
performed with simple instrumentation
there is no need for Adaptive Optics and
in fact room light and the human eye are
sufficient to observe some reactions
further the lspr signal is largely
temperature independent dep so there is
no need for thermal
controls third lspr is unique in that
amplification steps performed in serum
plasma urine or saliva generate precise
signals that can be measured for precise
Target
quantitation thus Aiza for example can
be performed on lspr with exquisite
sensitivity and assay
Precision these properties of marginal
bulk effect instrumental Simplicity and
its compatibility with different assay
enhancements and formats combined to
make lspr an ideal technology for
application in
Diagnostics further LS spr's design
flexibility and instrumental Simplicity
scalability and low cost create the
opportunity to bring the high
sensitivity and quantitative Precision
of state-of-the-art central lab
equipment into miniaturized and mobile
formats for point of care
lamet is working to bring the future of
Diagnostics into the present through the
power of
lspr thank you for listening to our
presentation we welcome your comments
please email us at info@ lin.com and
learn more by visiting our website
lin.com