surface plasmon resonance or SPR has
emerged as a powerful optical detection
technique for studying label-free
biomolecular interactions in real time
within a variety of diverse applications
such as life science electrochemistry
chemical vapor detection food and
environmental safety and beyond due to
its simplicity
nearly every commercially available SPR
instrument uses a detection scheme
called the crush bond configuration in
this setup a light source passes through
a prism reflects off the backside of the
censorship surface and into a detector
at a certain incident angle known as the
resonance angle light is absorbed by the
electrons in the metal film of the
sensor chip causing them to resonate
these resonating electrons are also
known as surface plasmons which are
sensitive to their surrounding
environment
the result is an intensity loss in the
reflected beam which appears as a dark
band and can be seen as a dip in the spr
reflection intensity curve the shape and
location of the SPR dip can then be used
to convey information about the sensor
surface SPR technology is commonly
utilized for the study of molecular
binding interactions between free
analyte molecules and solution and probe
molecules which are linked to or
immobilize on to the sensor surface as a
molecular binding event takes place the
angular position of this dark band
shifts and a shift in the reflectivity
curve can also be observed this is a
direct method of detection which avoids
the drawbacks of labels another powerful
aspect of spr technology is in its
ability to observe the time-dependent
binding interaction between molecules by
monitoring this change in SPR response
over time researchers can study the
kinetics of molecular binding events in
the first example an analyte with low
affinity to the immobilize ligand on the
sensor surface is introduced and
therefore negligible binding interaction
is observed however when an analyte with
higher affinity to
mobilize Ligon is introduced into the
system then binding events are more
readily observed initially there are
many binding sites available resulting
in a rapid increase in SPR response that
occurs as analyte begins to bind to the
ligand while sample is continually
delivered to the sensor surface analyte
molecules continue to bind in the number
of available binding sites decreases
corresponding to a decrease in binding
rate as the SPR response levels off the
system approaches equilibrium and the
number of molecules binding and
unbinding become equal when no more
analyte is introduced into the system
the molecules will continue to unbind
resulting in a decrease in SPR response
the association constant ka can be
extracted from the behavior of the
binding response and likewise the
dissociation constant KD can be
extracted from the unbinding response
the ratio of these two rate constants
can yield the binding affinity of the
system the information that can be
obtained from SPR serves as a simple
precise and label-free technique for
quantitative analysis of molecular
binding interactions