[Music]
imagine a coffee cup that streams the
day's headlines in real time or a Cooks
pot that detects the presence of ecoli
bacteria before they make you sick or a
TV screen as thin and flexible as a
piece of paper all of these could become
a reality if a Wonder material called
graphine lives up to its hype it
conducts electricity as well as copper
does and conducts heat better than any
other known material at only one atom
thick it's also the thinnest known
material and it's stronger than steel
graphine is made out of plain old carbon
one of the most common and familiar
elements out there so scientists were
surprised to find this new form of
carbon had such amazing properties
carbon comes in many crystalline forms
called allotropes the most well-known
are diamond and graphite allotropes are
different forms of the same element with
different bonding Arrangements between
atoms resulting in structures that have
different chemical and physical
properties the way atoms are connected
to each other and solid materials has a
huge impact on their overall properties
a diamond and a piece of coal are so
different that you would never guess
that they're both made out of the same
element carbon in Diamond each carbon
atom is connected to four other carbons
this is a very strong Arrangement that
makes diamonds one of the hardest known
materials in graphite each carbon atom
is linked to three others in layers of
hexagonal shapes that look like chicken
wire the bonds within the hexagonal
sheets are strong but each layer is only
weakly attracted raed to the next which
allows the layers to slip by one another
in 2004 two chemists at the University
of Manchester in the UK used this
property to produce samples of graphine
which helped reveal its remarkable
characteristics they used sticky tape to
separate the layers of carbon and
graphite to get an idea of how their
technique worked think of pressing
sticky tape onto a piece of graphite and
pulling it away leaving the sticky
surface covered with graphite flakes
then press the sticky tape to itself and
pull it apart after a few rounds of this
the flakes on the tape would only be a
single atom thick pure
graphine because graphine is only 1 atom
thick it's considered to be a
two-dimensional material despite being
the thinnest known material it's also
the strongest material ever tested 100
times stronger than
steel let's look at some possible future
applications of this amazing material
graphine is nearly transparent to light
it's also a terrific conductor of
electricity
as a result graphine could be used in
combination with other photovoltaic
devices to make solar panels that are
thin flexible and cheap these light and
flexible solar panels could cover the
outside of buildings be molded to fit a
car body or be wrapped around furniture
or clothing this could lead to a new
generation of sun-powered eco-friendly
homes and
products today most cell phones and
Tablet PCs have touchscreens these touch
screens carry an electric charge when
your finger hits a touchcreen some of
the charge is transferred to you so the
charge on the screen decreases this
decrease is measured by sensors located
at Each corner of the screen and the
information is related to a processor
which determines what kind of action to
take touch screens made with graphing as
their conduc Dev element could be
printed on thin plastic instead of glass
so they would be light and flexible
which can make cell phones as thin as a
piece of paper also because of graphing
Incredible strength these cell phones
would be nearly Unbreakable
many scientists expect that this type of
touchcreen will be the first graphine
product to appear on the
marketplace because graphine is thin and
flexible it could be integrated into
bionic devices that could be implanted
into living tissue graphine is very
resistant to the Salty ionic Solutions
inside living tissues so bionic devices
made out of graphine could last a long
time graphine conducts electrical
signals so it could be connected to
neurons neurons are cells which send
weak electrical signals from cell to
cell in the body imagine lining
transistors made of graphine along a
damaged spinal cord these strings of
graphine could deliver nerve impulses
from the undamaged section of the spinal
cord past the damage and onto the nerves
and muscles if this would work it could
allow people to regain use of arms and
legs lost to them by spine
injuries these potential applications
make graphine a truly exciting material
but there's still a long way to go
before any of these products become a
reality
a major obstacle is making sheetss of
graphine large enough and pure enough to
be useful any non-carbon atoms can
disrupt the perfect hexagonal pattern
for graphine many of the samples
produced for research are only a few
Square millim in size fortunately
graphine sheets close to a meter across
have been reported and breakthroughs
seem to come every month the race is on
to be the first to show whether this
Wonder material can live up to its
potential e